[Autogenerated] for your first CloudWatch alarm I thought it would be best to
set up a billing alarm in case anything we do charges us.
This is pretty important to have regardless as AWS charges have a
tendency to sneak up on you if you aren't paying attention especially
since they bill at the end of the month.
Trust me on this, I'm speaking from experience in your AWS management console,
go to the CloudWatch dashboard.
The CloudWatch Service has a lot of different functionalities.
There are the dashboards where you can view the status of
different metrics for your resources,
alarms where you can perform automated actions based on metric thresholds,
logs where you can import and analyze logs from all sorts of AWS
resources and there are so many more I swear there seemed to be more
features added to CloudWatch every single day.
The alarms option is what we want but there is something unique
about billing alerts that we need to take care of.
First billing alerts are currently only available in the north Virginia
region and they have to be enabled from the billing dashboard So let's
enable building alerts on our account,
ensure that you are still in the north Virginia region
since we changed it in the last clip,
then click on your name in the top right of the screen and select
my billing dashboard on the left hand side,
select billing preferences and then check the box for receive billing alerts,
then save the change by clicking save preferences.
This will enable us to create an alarm for billing.
Now go back to the CloudWatch dashboard select the alarms menu
option on the left side of the screen to expand it and then
select the all alarms sub option.
You could also select the billing option which would pre set some filters for
your list but I actually want you to get the full vanilla experience of
creating a cloudwatch alarm from scratch instead.
Now click the create alarm button,
you may have noticed by now that AWS kind of goes between calling these things,
billing alerts and billing alarms.
They're basically the same thing as far as I can tell though in the next screen
click the select metric button in the select metric modal.
You should see only a couple of services available in the metric section.
CloudWatch will only show you available metrics to set alarms on for
services that you currently have resources created for.
We haven't yet created any ec two instances or dynamodb tables
which is why those metrics don't appear here to select now select
billing and then total estimated charge and then select the list
option for usd currency.
Then click the select metric button.
Now we need to set the time period which the alarm will
use to evaluate whether a threshold was crossed or not
for estimated billing charges.
This doesn't quite matter as much so we can just leave it at six hours.
Now scroll down to the condition section here is where we'll define
the amount that we want to use as a threshold.
Leave the static threshold type and the operator of greater
selected in the threshold value enter the dollar amount that
you want to use as a threshold.
I usually set mine to $5 but feel free to set yours to a
different value that you're comfortable with.
Now click next and take a look at the notification section.
We want to be notified when the alarm has entered the alarm state.
So leave this option selected.
We'll also use an existing sNS topic so leave the radio option
selected and click in the following input box to select the admin
underscore email topic that we created.
The next two sections are for actions that CloudWatch can take on ec.
Two instances.
Now click the next button here.
We get to name the alarm for our reference later I'll name mine
something really creative like billing alarm.
Now click next and we can preview all of the options we selected.
Everything looks good here.
So click the create alarm button and will be taken back to the alarms list.
The billing alarm we just created will be in the insufficient data
state which just means it hasn't connected to the billing system yet
and gotten any data and that's fine.
Just refresh the list and it should then show is okay now we're all set
and will be notified if the alarm ever gets triggered.
Throughout the course we will be utilizing CloudWatch for
many of the other services we interact with.
In fact, many services use CloudWatch implicitly for managing automatic behavior.
We will continue to see CloudWatch as we move throughout this course, so this won't be the last you see of it.